VICTORIA POLICE - WITNESS STATEMENT

Statement of: Senior Constable James Anderson
Date: 15 March 2024
Time: 14:30
Location: Melbourne Magistrates' Court

STATEMENT REGARDING PRELIMINARY BREATH TEST CONDUCTED ON 10 MARCH 2024

I am Senior Constable James Anderson, currently stationed at Melbourne East Police Station. I have been a member of Victoria Police for 8 years and am authorized to conduct preliminary breath tests under section 55D of the Road Safety Act 1986.

On 10 March 2024 at approximately 22:45, I was on patrol duty along Smith Street, Collingwood. I observed a silver Toyota Camry, registration ABC-123, being driven erratically. The vehicle crossed the center line twice and appeared to be traveling at excessive speed.

I formed the opinion that the driver may have been under the influence of alcohol. I activated my emergency lights and the vehicle pulled over at the intersection of Smith Street and Johnston Street.

I approached the driver's side window. The driver, later identified as Mr. John Roberts, appeared nervous. I believed I could smell alcohol on his breath. When I asked if he had been drinking, he stated "I had a couple of beers earlier."

I informed Mr. Roberts that I was required to conduct a preliminary breath test pursuant to section 49(1)(g) of the Road Safety Act 1986, as I had formed a reasonable belief that he had consumed alcohol while in control of a motor vehicle on a public road.

At 22:52, I administered the preliminary breath test using an approved device. The device had been properly maintained and calibrated according to section 55E requirements. The test returned a positive reading.

I then informed Mr. Roberts that he was required to accompany me to the police station for an evidentiary breath test under section 55(1) of the Road Safety Act 1986. He was cautioned and advised of his rights.

During the journey to the station, Mr. Roberts said "I only had two beers, I thought I would be okay to drive." I told him that any statements he made could be used as evidence.

At Melbourne East Police Station, the evidentiary breath test was conducted at 23:20. The result showed a blood alcohol concentration of 0.08%, which exceeds the prescribed concentration for a full license holder.

Mr. Roberts was subsequently charged with:
- Exceeding prescribed concentration of alcohol (first offence)
- Contrary to section 49(1)(a) of the Road Safety Act 1986

I am aware of my obligations under the Criminal Procedure Act 2009, particularly regarding disclosure requirements under Part 3.3. All relevant evidence has been disclosed to the prosecution in accordance with section 187.

This statement is true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I make it knowing that it may be tendered as evidence in proceedings before the Magistrates' Court and that I may be cross-examined on its contents.

Signed: James Anderson
Date: 15 March 2024
Witnessed by: Sergeant Michelle Thompson
